### tcpl-works: An R package for processing high-throughput chemical screening data

Welcome to the GitHub repository for the tcpl-works package.

The tcpl pacakge provides a set of tools for processing and modeling high-throughput and high-content chemical screening data. The package was developed for the chemical screening data generated by the US EPA [ToxCast program](https://www.epa.gov/chemical-research/toxicity-forecasting), but can be used for diverse chemical screening efforts.

The tcpl-works package includes a series of modifications made by Kenneth Ball on a fork of the tcpl package to fix some pretty serious issues with how tcpl was dealing with concentrations that were not addressed by the original authors.

Contrary to its documentation, tcpl was retaining only *one* significant figure (before taking the log) in experimental concentration series. This was mostly hidden because many experiments vary concentrations over an approximate scale of $\sqrt{10}$ fold changes (i.e., (.1,.3,1,3,10,30) microMolars), which are all unchanged when 1 significant figure is taken and also log10(3) is pretty close to .5. However, if *other* concentration series are used (i.e. a 2-fold series like (.75,1.5,3,6,12,24)), then retaining only one significant figure can cause serious issues in the tcpl outputs. In our 2-fold example, those concentrations get changed to (.8,2,3,6,10,20) *before* being logged.

Our changes in tcpl-works address this issue by bring tcpl in line with its documentation: 3 significant figures of concentrations are retained. In addition, related problems related to the plotFits method are fixed and several normalization methods are added to the mc3_methods and mc5_methods files.

tcpl-works, like tcpl is licencesed under GPL-2.

If you are interested in contributing or want to report a bug, please see [CONTRIBUTING](CONTRIBUTING.md) for more information. 

To install the current development version run the following command:

    devtools::install_github("daynefiler/tcpl")
